Diversignsa
360.474.3507
W: www.diversignsa.global
Rev. 07.01.26
Workplace
Guidebook

-- 1 of 39 --

1

-- 2 of 39 --

2

-- 3 of 39 --

Table of Contents
Table of Contents 	2
Equal Opportunity 	4
Onboarding and Probationary Period 	4
Employee Status and Records 	4
Employment Classifications 	4
Performance Review and Salary Merit Increases 	5
Performance Improvement 	6
Employee Benefits 	9
Vacation 	9
Holidays 	10
Workers' Compensation Insurance 	11
Sick or Personal Leave 	11
Voting 	12
Jury Duty 	12
Military Service 	13
Bereavement Leave 	13
Health Insurance 	14
Health Benefits Continuation (COBRA) 	14
Short-term Disability Insurance 	15
Long-term Disability Insurance 	15
Domestic Violence Support and Leave Policy 	16
Kitchen — Break Room 	15
Employee Recognition 	16
Payroll 	16
Payday 	16
Overtime Compensation 	16
Payroll Deductions 	17
Work Place Guidelines 	17
Workday 	17
Meal and Rest Periods 	18
Smoking 	18
Family Leave 	18
Pregnant Employees 	19
Attendance 	20
E-Policies 	20
General Principles 	20
User Responsibilities 	21
General e-Policies 	23
Management Access to Technology Resources 	26
Acknowledging Receipt of Policy Manual 29
3

-- 4 of 39 --

A Letter from the Founding Steward
Welcome to Diversignsa.
We are pleased to have you as a steward of Diversignsa and
hope that you find your association with the Black Indigenous People
of Color* Deaf (BIPOCD*) owned for profit social enterprise which is a
worker owned and member owned [platform] cooperative valuing
transformative [language]justice to be an enriching and empowering
work experience.
This manual is your guide to our policies/guidelines/principles. Of
course, this manual cannot cover every eventuality that may arise. Its
purpose is to summarize or highlight current policies and practices for
staff members. All policies are subject to change. If you have questions
or would like more information, your supervisor/manager is your most
immediate source.
We invite you to share with us your questions and thoughts about
work life at Diversignsa. Please feel free to call upon the
Human Capital Steward or Founding Steward to assist you in any
matter that concerns you and your job at Diversignsa.
Sincerely,
Ashanti Monts-Tréviska
Founding Steward
4

-- 5 of 39 --

Equitable Opportunity
Equitable Opportunity is Diversignsa's policy. It is our
compassionate approach to select the passionate person with
matchless skills and grounded understanding of the culture of
accountability for each position in Diversignsa as a social business/social
co-op.
No steward of Diversignsa will discriminate against or
oppress an applicant for employment or a fellow employee because of
race, creed, color, religion, sex, national origin, ancestry, age, or other
physical or mental disability. No steward of the social enterprise will
discriminate against or oppress any applicant or fellow steward
because of the person's veteran status.
This policy applies to all employment practices and personnel actions
including advertising, recruitment, testing, screening, hiring, selection
for training, upgrading, transfer, demotion, layoff, termination, rates of
pay, and other forms of compensation or overtime.
Diversignsa has adopted an affirmative action policy which
essentially means that Diversignsa will aggressively seek out,
hire, develop, and promote qualified members of protected and or/
underrepresented groups — defined as racial minorities,
women/womxn, physically or mentally disabled, disabled veterans,
veterans of the Vietnam era, and persons ages of 40 and over.
If you are uncertain as to your status, please contact your stewarding
supervisor/manager.

Onboarding and Probationary Period

Purpose

Diversignsa is committed to welcoming new Stewards and ensuring they have a smooth transition into our organization. The onboarding and probationary period is designed to facilitate team building, establish trust relationships with all Stewards, and ensure that new Stewards understand our values, culture, and operational procedures before gaining full access to all systems and resources.

Probationary Period Overview

All new Stewards hired at Diversignsa will be placed in a three (3) month probationary period beginning on their first day of employment. This probationary period is a critical time for:
• Building relationships and trust with all Stewards
• Learning Diversignsa's culture, values, and operational procedures
• Demonstrating commitment to the organization's mission
• Assessing fit within the team and organizational structure
• Completing required training and onboarding activities

During the probationary period, new Stewards will have limited access to certain applications, software, and systems used by Diversignsa until they are cleared to exit the probationary period.

Onboarding Process

Week One: Orientation
During the first week, new Stewards will participate in a comprehensive orientation that includes:
• Welcome and introduction to Diversignsa's mission, vision, and values
• Overview of organizational structure and key Stewards
• Review of the Workplace Guidebook and all policies
• Introduction to workplace safety and security procedures
• IT setup and initial system access (limited)
• Tour of physical workspace and facilities
• Introduction to team members and department-specific orientation

Weeks Two through Twelve: Integration and Training
During weeks two through twelve, new Stewards will:
• Participate in team-building activities and social events
• Complete department-specific training and skill development
• Shadow experienced Stewards to learn processes and procedures
• Attend meetings and participate in team activities
• Build relationships with colleagues across departments
• Complete any required certifications or compliance training
• Receive regular feedback from their supervisor/manager

System and Software Access During Probation

During the three-month probationary period, new Stewards will have:
• Limited access to Diversignsa's applications and software
• Access only to systems necessary to perform their core job functions
• Supervised access to sensitive data or systems
• Restricted access to administrative functions and tools
• No access to financial systems, payroll, or confidential personnel records (unless required for their position)
• No access to systems managing other Stewards' information or accounts

Full system access will be granted upon successful completion of the probationary period, contingent on:
• Satisfactory performance and conduct
• Demonstrated understanding of Diversignsa's policies and procedures
• Positive feedback from supervisor/manager and team members
• Completion of all required training and onboarding activities
• Clearance from the Human Capital Steward or Founding Steward

Performance Expectations During Probation

During the probationary period, new Stewards are expected to:
• Demonstrate a commitment to Diversignsa's mission and values
• Show willingness to learn and adapt to the organization's culture
• Maintain professional and respectful relationships with all Stewards
• Adhere to all policies and procedures outlined in this Workplace Guidebook
• Attend all required training and onboarding sessions
• Communicate openly with their supervisor/manager about questions or concerns
• Demonstrate reliability, punctuality, and professional conduct

Probationary Period Review

At the end of the three-month probationary period, the new Steward's supervisor/manager will conduct a formal review to assess:
• Job performance and competency
• Adherence to policies and procedures
• Relationship building and team integration
• Completion of training and onboarding requirements
• Overall fit within the organization

Outcomes of Probationary Review

Upon completion of the probationary period, one of the following outcomes will occur:

Successful Completion: The Steward has demonstrated satisfactory performance, positive relationships with team members, and understanding of organizational policies. Full system access will be granted, and the Steward will transition to regular employment status.

Extension of Probation: In cases where additional time is needed to assess performance or complete training, the probationary period may be extended for an additional period (not to exceed 30 days) with written notice to the Steward.

Termination: If the Steward has not demonstrated satisfactory performance, adherence to policies, or positive team integration, employment may be terminated at the end of the probationary period.

Termination During Probation

Diversignsa reserves the right to terminate employment at any time during the probationary period if a Steward:
• Fails to demonstrate satisfactory job performance
• Violates Diversignsa policies or procedures
• Engages in unprofessional or disruptive conduct
• Fails to complete required training or onboarding activities
• Does not demonstrate commitment to building trust relationships with team members
• Demonstrates inability to work effectively within the team environment

Termination during the probationary period may occur with or without cause and with minimal notice.

Questions and Support

New Stewards with questions about the onboarding process, probationary period, or system access should contact:
• Their direct supervisor/manager
• Human Capital Steward
• Founding Steward (Ashanti Monts-Tréviska)

Diversignsa is committed to supporting new Stewards throughout the onboarding process and ensuring a positive experience as they join our organization.


Employee Status and Records
Employment Classifications
There are five classifications of stewards:
Regular Full-time - An steward who works a normal 40-hour
workweek on a regularly scheduled basis.
5

-- 6 of 39 --

Regular Part-time - An steward who works less than a normal
workweek, on either a regularly scheduled basis or on an irregular
basis.
Per Diem – A steward who works on the day by day basis. The
employee shall be compensated for the number of days approved by
the supervisor.
Temporary/On call – A steward hired for a period not exceeding three
months and who is not entitled to regular benefits. An extension of a
temporary work classification for an additional three-month period, or
less, may be granted, if upon review by management, the assignment
is clearly found to be necessary. A temporary steward may be full-time
or part-time. In addition to the use of this classification for secretarial
or clerical positions, it applies to students working part-time and those
who work during the summer.
Baylor- A steward who works full time covering 25 (minimum) hour
shifts in a weekend format on a regularly scheduled basis.
All stewards are classified as exempt and non-exempt according to
these definitions:
Salaried Exempt - Positions of a managerial, administrative, or
professional nature or for outside sales, as prescribed by federal and
state labor statutes & provincial labour statutes, which are exempt
from mandatory, overtime payments.
Salaried Non-Exempt - Positions of a clerical, technical, or service
nature, as defined by statute, which are covered by provisions for
overtime payments.
Individual Performance Review (IPR)
Diversignsa has adopted a transformative management by
applying the objective approach to performance evaluation. The
steward is given the opportunity to set individual written goals. He or
she or they or the gender neutral person will self-evaluate based on
how well the stewardship goals have been met. Three months after
the steward joins the company, the Guidance Steward and steward will
meet to establish employment goals consistent with the business
6

-- 7 of 39 --

objectives of the company and the steward's department. The first
performance review will occur near the end of the next three months,
preferably on a date agreed to in writing. All future stewards' individual
performance reviews will be scheduled at six month intervals
(Dec/June). It is the guidance steward's responsibility to develop and
maintain a work environment in which stewards can openly discuss
performance and develop plans. The steward will be notified in writing
ten days in advance of the performance review date. Also included in
the notification will be the time, place, and the discussion topics for
the steward to prepare for the review. The steward, as well as the
guidance steward is to bring the following to the review meeting:
❑ 	A summary statement of the progress made toward meeting his
or her or general neutral person's employment goals;
❑ 	Examples of job-related areas demonstrating greatest strengths
and identifying areas where additional training is needed;
❑ 	An outline of job-related tasks in which the steward can
participate in to improve performance;
❑ 	A recommendation of job responsibilities and goals to be
established for the next three month period;
❑ 	A summary of overall employment performance.
The guidance steward is responsible for establishing a relaxed
atmosphere at the performance review and encouraging two-way
communication. The discussion should be conducted in a positive
manner, in complete privacy, and with no interruptions. The
stewarding supervisor/manager shall verify that the steward is familiar
with his or her or their job duties, previous goals, and the appraisal
criteria. At the conclusion of the performance appraisal, the steward
will be requested to sign the appraisal verifying that he or she or they
participated in the evaluation. The steward should be encouraged to
submit comments about the self-evaluation that will become part of
the record. A date for the next self-evaluation shall be agreed upon
and noted on the self-evaluation form. The steward must be given a
7

-- 8 of 39 --

signed copy of the self-evaluation. The self-evaluation is then
submitted for review by the next level of management.
Diversignsa believes that pay increases should be related to
a steward's performance. Following performance reviews, the
guidance steward will rank the employee's performance according to
his or her relative level of contribution to the company. Factors will
include how well the steward has met the objectives agreed upon in
the last review, whether it is the initial meeting or the following
three-month review, and the steward's level of contribution to the
success of the department/division relative to other stewards. During
the 6 month review, the human capital steward may make a decision
to increase the pay rate for the stewards based on his/her quarterly
performances. The guidance steward will rank all department/division
stewards in one of five groupings:
1 = Unsatisfactory 	2 = Marginal 	3 = Meets Job Standards
4 = Exceptional 	5 = Outstanding
Performance Improvement
Performance improvement may be suggested whenever stewarding
management believes that the steward's performance is less than
satisfactory and can be resolved through adequate counseling.
Empowerment counseling is completely at the discretion of company
management. Diversignsa desires to protect its investment
of time and expense devoted to steward's orientation and training
whenever that goal is in Diversignsa's best interests. Diversignsa
expressly reserves the right to discharge "at will." Even if
empowerment counseling is implemented, it may be terminated at
any step at the discretion of the human capital stewardship team.
Human capital stewardship team, in its sole discretion, may warn,
reassign, suspend, or discharge any steward at will, whichever it
chooses and at any time.
The guidance steward stewarding supervisor/manager, with
assistance of the Human Capital Steward and Founding Steward, will
determine the course of action best suited to the circumstances. The
steps in performance improvement are as follows:
8

-- 9 of 39 --

"Duologue" counseling - As the first step in correcting unacceptable
performance or behavior, the guidance steward should review
pertinent job requirements with the steward to ensure his or her
understanding of them. The guidance steward should consider the
severity of the problem, the steward's previous performance reviews
and all of the circumstances surrounding the particular case. Stating
that a written warning, probation, or possible termination could result
if the problem is not resolved should indicate the seriousness of the
performance or misconduct. The steward should be asked to review
what has been discussed to ensure his or her or their understanding
of the seriousness of the problem and the corrective action necessary.
The guidance steward should document the verbal counseling for
future reference immediately following the review.
Written counseling - If the unacceptable performance or behavior
continues, the next step should be a written warning. Certain
circumstances, such as violation of a widely known policy or safety
requirement, may justify a written warning without first using verbal
counseling. The written warning defines the problem and how it may
be corrected. The seriousness of the problem is again emphasized,
and the written warning shall indicate that probation or termination
may result if improvement is not observed. Written counseling
becomes part of the steward's personnel file, although the stewarding
supervisor/manager may direct that the written warning be removed
after a period of time, under appropriate circumstances.
Probation - If the problem has not been resolved through written
counseling or the circumstances warrant it, the individual should be
placed on probation. Probation is a serious action in which the
employee is advised that termination will occur if improvement in
performance or conduct is not achieved within the probationary
period. The Human Resources Steward and the steward's guidance
steward, after review of the steward's empowerment counseling
documentation, will determine the length of probation. Typically, the
probation period should be at least two weeks and no longer than 60
days, depending on the circumstances. A written probationary notice
to the steward is prepared by the supervisor/manager.
The letter should include a statement of the following:
❑ 	The specific unsatisfactory situation;
❑ 	A review of oral and written warnings;
❑ 	The length of probation;
❑ 	The specific behavior modification or acceptable level of
9

-- 10 of 39 --

performance;
❑ 	Suggestions for improvement;
❑ 	A scheduled counseling session or sessions during the
probationary period; and
❑ 	A statement that further action, including termination, may result
if defined improvement or behavior modification does not result
during probation. "Further action" may include, but is not limited
to reassignment, reduction in pay, grade, or demotion.
The guidance steward should personally meet with the steward in
person to discuss the probationary letter and answer any questions.
The steward should acknowledge receipt by signing the letter. If the
steward refuses to sign, the guidance steward may sign attesting that
it was delivered to the steward and identifying the date of delivery. The
probationary letter becomes part of the steward's personnel file.
On the defined probation counseling date or dates, the steward and
guidance steward will meet to review the steward's progress in
correcting the problem, which led to the probation. Brief written
summaries of these meetings should be prepared with copies
provided to the steward and the Human Resources Steward, Guidance
Steward, and the Community Stewards.
At the completion of the probationary period, the Human Resources
Steward, Founding Stewarding Leader, Stewarding Leaders and the
stewarding supervisor/manager will meet to determine whether the
steward has achieved the required level of performance and to
consider removing the steward from probation, extending the period
of probation, or taking further action. The steward is to be advised in
writing of the decision. Should probation be completed successfully,
the employee should be commended, though cautioned that any
future recurrence may result in further disciplinary action.
Suspension - A two or three day suspension without pay may be
justified when circumstances reasonably require an investigation of a
serious incident in which the steward was allegedly involved. A
suspension may also be warranted when steward safety, welfare, or
morale may be adversely affected if a suspension is not imposed.
In addition, and with prior approval of the Human Resources Steward,
suspension without pay for up to three consecutive working days may
be imposed for such proven misconduct as intentional violation of
safety rules, fighting, or drinking alcohol on the job. These examples
10

-- 11 of 39 --

do not limit management's use of suspension with or without pay in
other appropriate circumstances, such as the need to investigate a
serious incident. In implementing a suspension, a written counseling
report should set forth the circumstances justifying the suspension.
Such a report shall become part of the steward's personnel file.
Involuntary Termination - The involuntary terminations notice is
prepared by the supervisor/manager with concurrence of, and review
by, the personnel department. The steward is notified of the
termination by the stewarding supervisor/manager and will be
directed to report to the personnel department for debriefing and
completion of termination documentation.
The following definitions and classification of violations, for which
empowerment counseling, performance improvement, or other
disciplinary action may be taken, are merely illustrative and not limited
to these examples. A particular violation may be major or minor,
depending on the surrounding facts or circumstances.
Minor violations - Less serious violations that have some effect on
the continuity, efficiency of work, safety, and harmony within Diversignsa. They typically lead to empowerment counseling unless
repeated or when unrelated incidents occur in rapid succession. Here
are some examples of minor violations:
❑ 	Excessive tardiness;
❑ 	Unsatisfactory job performance;
❑ 	Defacing Diversignsa's property;
❑ 	Interfering with another steward's job performance;
❑ 	Excessive absenteeism;
❑ 	Failure to observe working hours, such as the schedule of starting
time, quitting time, rest and meal periods;
❑ 	Performing unauthorized personal work on company time;
❑ 	Failure to notify the supervisor/manager of intended absence
either before or within one hour after the start of a shift;
❑ 	Unauthorized use of the company telephone, Internet, or
equipment for personal business.
11

-- 12 of 39 --

Major violations - These more serious violations would include any
deliberate or willful infraction of company rules and may preclude
continued employment of the steward. Here are some examples of
major violations:
❑ 	Fighting on company premises;
❑ 	Repeated occurrences of related or unrelated minor violations,
depending upon the severity of the violation and the
circumstances;
❑ 	Any act which might endanger the safety or lives of others;
❑ 	Departing company premises during working hours for personal
reasons without the permission of the supervisor/manager;
❑ 	Bringing firearms or weapons onto the company premises;
❑ 	Deliberately stealing, destroying, abusing, or damaging company
property, tools, or equipment, or the property of another
employee or visitor or residents;
❑ 	Disclosure of confidential company information or trade secrets to
unauthorized persons;
❑ 	Willfully disregarding company policies or procedures;
❑ 	Willfully falsifying any company records;
❑ 	Failing to report to work without excuse or approval of
management for three consecutive days;
❑ 	Bringing software into the company and installing it on company
computers without authorization;
❑ 	Violating the terms set out in the e-Policy.
Stewardship Benefits
Vacation
12

-- 13 of 39 --

Vacation benefits are based on the steward's next anniversary date
that occurs in the current calendar year. The schedule is as follows:
Anniversary Date in Calendar Year 	Vacation Entitlement as of January 1 of
Calendar Year
1st through 4th 	2 weeks
5th through 9th 	3 weeks
10th through 19th 	4 weeks
20th through 24th 	5 weeks
25th or more 	6 weeks
To be eligible to take vacation, the steward must be in active pay
status. (Vacation is not vested, and a terminating steward will not be
paid for vacation not taken. Vacation not taken during the calendar
year is forfeited.)
New stewards become eligible to take vacation after they have worked
three consecutive months. Those reporting on the first working day in
January are entitled to two weeks of paid vacation. Those reporting
after the first working day in January through the first working day in
July are entitled to one week of paid vacation. New stewards reporting
for work after the first working day in July are not entitled to paid
vacation until the following year. Part-time stewards are not entitled to
paid vacation. Stewards who are not entitled to paid vacation may
request permission from their Guidance Steward to take up to one
week of unpaid vacation time.
The steward's Guidance Steward is responsible for scheduling
vacations. Vacation entitlement is administered by the Human Capital
Stewardship Department. Stewards are responsible for planning
ahead for vacation and working out their schedule with their
supervisor/manager. Normally, a two-week advance notice of vacation
is expected and necessary to ensure appropriate scheduling of work.
Stewards who desire to take more than three weeks of vacation at one
time should give their stewarding supervisor/manager more than two
weeks advance notice.
13

-- 14 of 39 --

Holidays
Diversignsa provides [5] paid holidays each year.
It is actively open for 363 days:
Holiday Schedule for 2020-2022
December 31-January 1 	New Year's Day
September 3 	Thrive Day
4th Thursday of November 	Indigenous Mourning Day
June 19 	Juneteenth
July 3 	International Co-op Day
December 21-27 	Winter Solstice Break
March 21-27 	Spring Equinox Break
June 21-27 	Summer Solstice Break
September 21-27 	Fall Equinox Break
Eligibility for Holiday Pay
Stewards must work the last scheduled day before a holiday and the
first scheduled working day following the holiday to be eligible for
holiday pay unless time off on these days has been excused with pay
(e.g. vacation and sick leave). Only regular full time stewards are
eligible for full holiday pay. Temporary stewards are not eligible for
holiday pay.
Part-time stewards are entitled to an equal number of company
holidays, but they shall receive pay for only the number of hours they
would have regularly worked. If the steward is required to work on a
scheduled holiday, the steward will be paid for hours worked at his or
her regular pay in addition to holiday pay.
If a designated holiday falls within the steward's vacation period, the
holiday is not considered a vacation day. Stewards may take religious
holidays not designated as a company holiday either as a floating
holiday or without pay. Prior approval in advance must be obtained
from the steward's supervisor/manager.
Workers' Compensation Insurance
Diversignsa insures all stewards against accidental injuries
occurring on the job, in accordance with the Washington State
Workers' Compensation Law or Oregon's Worker's Compensation or
British Columbia's Worker's Compensation. Coverage begins on the
date of employment and covers any injury or illness sustained in the
course of employment that requires medical, surgical, or hospital
treatment. Stewards must report stewarding all accidents
immediately to their stewarding supervisor or department manager,
and the stewarding supervisor/manager must notify the Human
Resources Stewarding Office within 24 hours. If the stewarding
supervisor or department manager is not available the employee
should notify the Human Resources Stewarding Office. No matter how
minor an on-the-job injury may appear, it is important that it is
reported immediately. This procedure will enable the eligible steward
to qualify for coverage, in a timely manner.
Sick or Personal Leave
A regular full-time steward will receive 40 hours of sick leave after six
months of continuous employment. A regular part-time employee will
be credited with an appropriate prorated number of hours. After the
first six months of employment, sick leave is accrued monthly at a rate
of 6.67 hours for a full-time steward and at a prorated amount for a
part-time steward. Sick leave is accrued on the last workday of the
month. Stewards must be in an active pay status on the last day of the
month to accrue sick leave for that month.
It is in the best interests of a steward who is ill or injured that the
steward leaves the workplace temporarily. It is the guidance steward's
responsibility to send the steward home if the steward is
incapacitated.
Time for routine doctor or dentist appointments is not to be charged
to sick leave. Stewards are encouraged to make such appointments
before arriving for work or after leaving work for the day, if possible. If
time off is required for such appointments, arrangements should be
made in advance with the steward's stewarding supervisor/manager.
The steward must use accumulated sick leave in conjunction with
income protection plans or other sources of disability income to
achieve full pay for as long as possible. However, at no time can the
combination of these exceed normal earnings.
The steward is expected to notify his or her or their stewarding
supervisor/manager at the beginning of each workday during illness or
injury. Exceptions to this include a serious accidental injury,
hospitalization, and when it is known in advance that the steward will
be absent for a certain period of time.
A Medical Release Statement is to be submitted to the steward's
supervisor/manager for review before the employee returns to work in
the following situations:
❑ 	Five or more consecutive workdays of absence due to illness or
injury;
❑ 	In all cases of work-related injury when the steward has been
unable to work after the time of the injury;
❑ 	When returning from medical or maternity leaves of absence.
In the case of a work-related accident or injury, Diversignsa
will compensate the steward for any lost work hours beginning on the
date of the accident or injury and for the next 48 hours of scheduled
work time lost as a result of that accident or injury. The steward's sick
leave is not to be used for this purpose. The steward must then use
accumulated sick leave in conjunction with workers' compensation or
other disability income to achieve full pay for as long as possible.
However, at no time can the combination of these exceed normal
earnings.
Unused sick leave will be forfeited upon termination. No steward will
be allowed to overdraw sick leave beyond 48 hours without approval
in writing from the Human Resources Steward. However, adjustments
will be made in compliance with ADA on a case by case basis. Such
approval will only be granted on the condition, in writing and signed by
the steward, that overdrawn sick leave will be deducted from the
steward's final paycheck upon termination.
Sick leave is not earned while the steward is on a leave of absence.
16

-- 17 of 39 --

Voting
Diversignsa empowers all stewards to make wise decisions
in the best interest of personal growth. Stewards who choose to vote
are encouraged to vote before their scheduled work hours or after the
end of work day. Stewards also can request for a personal day off to
focus on voting experience.
Jury Duty
Time off for mandatory jury duty or court appearances required as a
result of a valid subpoena or court order is excused and paid at full
salary, provided that proof of duty is verified by the steward's
supervisor/manager.
There will be no adjustment in the steward's salary for receipt of jury
duty pay, witness fees, or expenses. The steward is expected to report
for work when it does not conflict with court obligations.
It is the steward's responsibility to keep his or her or their stewarding
supervisor/manager periodically informed about the amount of time
required for jury duty or court appearances.
Bereavement Leave
Diversignsa will provide time off for stewards to attend the
funerals of family members and friends. Your supervisor/manager will
approve whatever period of time is necessary and appropriate under
the circumstances.
If the conditions warrant and if the stewarding supervisor/manager
agrees, paid leave will be granted, but the amount of paid leave time
will not exceed three days at regular straight-time wages. Such leave is
in addition to all other paid leave time.
Typically, paid leave is reserved for the death of immediate family
members.
Health Insurance
17

-- 18 of 39 --

Diversignsa provides holistic cooperative or shared health
insurance via Sharity Health Cooperative to Stewards and their
dependents with access to holistic medical, dental, prescription, and
vision care insurance benefits. Stewards in the following employment
classifications are eligible to participate in the holistic health insurance
plan:
Regular full-time Stewards
Diversignsa offers two health plan options: Holistic and
Conventional (Traditional). Diversignsa can opt for either
health plan option that best suits their current health situation.
Eligible stewards may participate in the health insurance plan subject
to all terms and conditions of the agreement between the company
and the health insurance company. You have a 90 day period from the
date of hire or the date of a qualifying event to enroll or change your
coverage. Coverage begins on the date of employment.
Stewards will contribute [XX%] of the insurance premium or [$XX per
pay period], which will be deducted from the employee's wages or
salary.
A change in employment classification that would result in loss of
eligibility to participate in the health insurance plan may qualify an
employee for benefits continuation under the Consolidated Omnibus
Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA).
Since health insurance is a very complex and expensive steward
benefit, stewards should consult the plan summary document given to
all eligible stewards.
Health Benefits Continuation (COBRA)
The Federal Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA)
gives the stewards and their qualified beneficiaries the opportunity to
continue health insurance coverage under the Diversignsa's
health plan when a "qualifying event" would normally result in the loss
of eligibility. Some common qualifying events are resignation,
termination of employment, or death of an employee; a reduction in
the steward's hours or a leave of absence; the steward's divorce or
18

-- 19 of 39 --

legal separation; and a dependent child no longer meeting eligibility
requirements.
Under COBRA, the steward or beneficiary pays the full cost of coverage
at the Diversignsa's group rates plus an administration fee. Diversignsa
provides each eligible steward with a written notice describing
rights granted under COBRA when the steward becomes eligible for
coverage under the company's health insurance plan. The notice
contains important information about the steward's rights and
obligations.
Note: To obtain cost information, contact the Human Resource
Stewarding Office
Short-term Disability Insurance
Diversignsa provides a short-term disability (STD) benefits
plan to eligible stewards who are unable to work because of a
qualifying disability due to an injury or illness. Stewards in the
following employment classifications are eligible to participate in the
STD plan:
Regular full-time Stewards
[SPECIFY ANY OTHERS]
Eligible stewards [DEFINE ELIGIBILITY] may participate in the STD plan
subject to all terms and conditions of the agreement between
Diversignsa and the disability insurance carrier. For details of
the STD benefits plan including plan options, benefit amounts, when
they are payable, limitations, restrictions, and other exclusions, see
the plan document provided to all eligible stewards. Contact the
Human Resource Stewarding Office t for more information about STD
benefits.
Long-term Disability Insurance

Domestic Violence Support and Leave Policy

Diversignsa recognizes that domestic violence is a serious issue that can affect the safety, health, and well-being of our staff members. We are committed to supporting Stewards who are experiencing domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking, and to providing a safe and supportive workplace environment.

Purpose

This policy is designed to:
• Provide support and resources to staff members experiencing domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking
• Ensure the safety and confidentiality of affected Stewards
• Allow Stewards to seek help and take necessary time off without fear of retaliation or job loss
• Create a workplace culture that does not tolerate violence in any form

Definitions

Domestic Violence: A pattern of abusive behavior in any relationship that is used by one partner to gain or maintain power and control over another intimate partner. This includes physical, sexual, emotional, economic, or psychological actions or threats.

Sexual Assault: Non-consensual sexual contact or behavior, including but not limited to unwanted touching, rape, or sexual coercion.

Stalking: A pattern of repeated, unwanted contact that causes reasonable fear for safety or causes substantial emotional distress.

Confidentiality

All information disclosed by an Steward regarding domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking will be kept confidential to the extent permitted by law. Diversignsa will not disclose such information without the Steward's written consent, except as required by law or to protect the safety of the Steward or others.

Paid Domestic Violence Leave

Eligible Stewards may take up to [5] paid days per calendar year for purposes related to domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking. This leave may be used to:
• Seek legal advice or assistance
• Obtain medical treatment or counseling
• Make safety arrangements
• Attend court proceedings
• Relocate or secure housing
• Seek law enforcement assistance
• Attend support group meetings
• Address other needs arising from the domestic violence situation

Stewards must request paid domestic violence leave immediately after the domestic violence incident has occurred. Stewards should notify their supervisor or the Human Capital Steward as soon as practicable when taking domestic violence leave. If advance notice is not feasible due to an emergency, Stewards should provide notice as soon as possible after the absence. Requests submitted significantly after the incident may be subject to review and approval by the Human Capital Steward or Founding Steward.

Flexible Work Arrangements

Diversignsa will work with Stewards experiencing domestic violence to provide flexible work arrangements, such as:
• Modified work schedules
• Temporary relocation to a different work location
• Temporary leave of absence
• Other accommodations as appropriate

Stewards should contact the Human Capital Steward or Founding Steward to discuss available options.

Safety Measures

Diversignsa will take reasonable steps to protect the safety of Stewards experiencing domestic violence, including:
• Providing information about security measures and resources
• Assisting with safety planning
• Maintaining confidentiality of the Steward's situation
• Taking appropriate action if the workplace is threatened

Non-Retaliation

Diversignsa strictly prohibits retaliation against any Steward for:
• Disclosing domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking
• Taking domestic violence leave
• Requesting or using flexible work arrangements
• Cooperating with law enforcement or legal proceedings
• Seeking support or resources

Any Steward who believes they have been retaliated against should immediately report the matter to the Human Capital Steward or Founding Steward.

Resources and Support

Diversignsa is committed to providing Stewards with information about available resources, including:
• National Domestic Violence Hotline: 1-800-799-7233 (available 24/7)
• RAINN (Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network): 1-800-656-4673
• Abused Deaf Women Advocacy Service (ADWAS): 1-855-500-3323 (TTY/Video Relay available)
  Website: www.adwas.org
• National Stalking Resource Center: www.stalkingawareness.org
• Local domestic violence shelters and support services
• Steward Assistance Program (EAP) services
• Counseling and mental health resources

The Human Capital Steward maintains a list of local and national resources and can provide referrals upon request.

Questions and Concerns

Stewards with questions about this policy or who need support should contact:
• Human Capital Steward
• Founding Steward (Ashanti Monts-Tréviska)

All inquiries will be handled with sensitivity and confidentiality.


Diversignsa provides a long-term disability (LTD) benefits
plan to help eligible stewards cope with an illness or injury that results
in a long-term absence from employment. LTD is designed to ensure a
continuing income for stewards who are disabled and unable to work.
19

-- 20 of 39 --

Employees in the following employment classifications are eligible to
participate in the LTD plan:
Regular full-time stewards
Eligible stewards may participate in the LTD plan subject to all terms
and conditions of the agreement between Diversignsa and
the LTD insurance company. Eligible employees may begin LTD
coverage only after completing [1] year of service.
Monthly disability payments are available on the [181st] calendar day
of disability at 60% of base salary at the time of the disability.
Details of the LTD benefits plan including benefit amounts, limitations,
and restrictions are described in the plan document provided to
eligible stewards. Contact the Human Resources Stewarding Office for
more information about LTD benefits.
Employee Recognition
Diversignsa believes that the good efforts of its stewards are
to be encouraged and rewarded. To that end, the company will
recognize the compassionate commitments of its stewards by
providing recognition of service plaques to all two-year stewards. Also,
the opportunity to select a gift from a selection of gifts chosen by
Diversignsa for stewards with at least ten years of
continuous service and at five-year intervals from and after the tenth
anniversary.
Diversignsa encourages the involvement of its stewards in
cultural, social, service, and recreational activities during their
non-work hours. Diversignsa will be happy to recognize
individual honors and achievements in these areas as well by
reporting such items in the company newsletter or posting results on
the company bulletin board.
Payroll
Payday
Diversignsa may opt to pay the two weeks worth of pay within 30
days for any at will stewards terminated less than or up to 30 working days
20

-- 21 of 39 --

regardless of the number of hours worked during the days.
Our stewards are paid every two weeks, 26 times annually. The first
payday of the year will be on the first 15th of the month, with each
successive payday being on alternate 30th of the month
Time cards are to be submitted to your stewarding
supervisor/manager by the close of business the Friday before the
company payday. Pay is for the two workweeks preceding the next
payday.
Overtime Compensation
Non-exempt stewards will be paid at the rate of one and one-half
times their regular rate of pay for the following:
❑ 	Hours worked in excess of 40 in a single workweek.
❑ 	Hours worked on official company holidays.
Non-exempt employees will receive double their regular rate of
pay for:
❑ 	Hours worked in excess of 12 in a single workday.
❑ 	Hours worked in excess of eight on the seventh workday and
following consecutive workdays.
If a non-exempt steward receives a shift premium, his or her
regular rate of pay includes that premium.
Exempt stewards may be eligible for overtime compensation, in
appropriate circumstances, for hours worked in excess of a
40-hour workweek. However, stewarding managers are
encouraged to recognize necessary exempt overtime by allowing
compensatory time off to be taken at a time and under
conditions mutually agreed upon between the exempt steward
and his or her or their stewarding manager. Overtime
compensation for exempt employees, other than compensatory
time off, must be approved in advance by the Founding
Stewarding Leader and Stewarding Leaders. Stewarding
managers making such a request should provide the Founding
Stewarding Leader and Stewarding Leaders with a written
memorandum stating the reasons for such overtime, the
maximum hours requested and the dates that overtime shall be
worked.
21

-- 22 of 39 --

Note: See general definitions of exempt and non-exempt stewards,
Employment Classifications.
Payroll Deductions
The following mandatory deductions will be made from every
steward's gross wages: federal income tax, Social Security FICA tax,
and applicable city and state taxes.
Every steward must fill out and sign a federal withholding allowance
certificate, IRS Form W-4, on or before his or her or their first day on
the job. This form must be completed in accordance with federal
regulations. The steward may fill out a new W-4 at any time when his
or her circumstances change. Stewards who paid no federal income
tax for the preceding year and who expect to pay no income tax for
the current year may fill out an Exemption from Withholding
Certificate, IRS Form W-4E. Stewards are expected to comply with the
instructions on Form W-4. Questions regarding the propriety of
claimed deductions may be referred to the IRS in certain
circumstances.
Other optional deductions include the portion of group health
insurance not paid by Diversignsa, which is deducted from
each payroll check. Other voluntary contributions, such as credit union
and pension plans, are also deducted each pay period.
Work Place Guidelines
Workday
A workday begins at 11 AM and ends at 8PM with an hour off for
lunch. Each workweek consists of 30 hours, and generally includes
work performed Monday through Friday.
Currently, Diversignsa's office hours are:
M, W 11AM-8 PM
T,TH 11 AM-8 PM
F 	11 AM-3 PM
22

-- 23 of 39 --

However, the nature of our business sometimes demands workday or
workweek hours different from those set forth above. Variation to the
schedule will be made or approved by guidance stewards.
Meal and Rest Periods
Meal Period - The normal workday is six to seven hours, commencing
at 11 AM and ending at 10:00 PM with a one-hour paid lunch period
beginning at noon.
Stewards who begin their workday before noon and continue to work
past 6:00 PM will be granted an paid 30-minute meal period between
6:00 PM and 11:00 PM
Rest Period - Non-exempt stewards are permitted two paid 10-minute
rest periods. Rest periods are to be scheduled as near the middle of
the morning and afternoon as possible.
Smoking
No smoking will be allowed in the office area at any time. This policy is
for the health and safety of all stewards and members. Smoking will be
allowed only in the designated areas. Smoking is greatly discouraged
by Diversignsa.
Your cooperation is requested, as this policy must be rigidly enforced
to comply with company health and safety requirements and to
maintain proper insurance coverage for our building.
Family Leave
Diversignsa shall provide unpaid parental leave for its
stewards up to 12 weeks. Stewards seeking parental leave shall
provide a request in writing at least 30 days in advance of the
anticipated date of delivery or adoption if the necessity for the leave is
foreseeable. The notice shall be binding upon the parents unless:
❑ 	The birth is premature;
23

-- 24 of 39 --

❑ 	The mother is incapacitated due to the birth such that she is
unable to care for the child;
❑ 	The steward takes physical custody of a newly adopted child at an
unanticipated time and is unable to give 30 days advance written
notice; or in cases of premature birth, incapacity or
unanticipated taking of physical custody of an adopted child,
employee shall company written notice of the revised dates of
parental leave within 7 days following birth or taking of custody.
Diversignsa may require certification from a health care
provider as to the need for the leave. Stewards may choose to use
accumulated vacation or sick leave time. Any parental leave shall not
exceed twelve weeks in length and shall consist of all or that part of
the time between the birth of the steward's infant and the time the
infant reaches twelve weeks of age, or in the case of a premature
infant, until the infant has reached the developmental stage equivalent
to twelve weeks as determined by an attending physician or all or
part of the twelve week period following the date an adoptive
parent takes physical custody of a newly adopted child under six
years of age.
Diversignsa will not grant parental leave if the effect would
be to enable the steward and the other parent of the child, if also
employed, parental leave totaling more than the time set forth above
or to grant any parental leave for any period of time in which the
child's other parent is also taking parental leave from employment.
Stewards seeking parental leave may also utilize any accrued vacation,
sick leave or compensatory leave subject to the other terms and
conditions of this policy manual.
Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) Poster - All covered employers are
required to display and keep displayed a poster prepared by the
Department of Labor summarizing the major provisions of The Family
and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) and telling stewards how to file a
complaint. The poster must be displayed in a conspicuous place where
employees and applicants for employment can see it. A poster must
be displayed at all locations even if there are no eligible stewards.
Please see the following Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) posters:
● FMLA EN
24

-- 25 of 39 --

● FMLA SP
Pregnant Stewards
In addition to the family leave policy, pregnant stewards may request,
if reasonably necessary, a temporary transfer to a less strenuous or
hazardous position for the duration of the pregnancy. The company
may require a medical opinion regarding the need for transfer.
Pregnant stewards may also take a leave of absence on account of
pregnancy for a reasonable period of time if the leave is reasonably
necessary, the steward requests the leave in writing, and the company
can reasonably accommodate the request. Pregnant stewards may
also use any accrued vacation time or other compensatory time off.
Upon return, any pregnant employee shall be entitled to any seniority,
vacation credits, or other benefits, which have accrued as of the date
of the leave and were not used in conjunction with the leave. No
steward benefits accrue during the leave. Upon return, Diversignsa
will endeavor to return the steward to her or his or their former
job or its equivalent.
If Diversignsa's circumstances have changed so that the steward cannot be
reinstated to the former or an equivalent job, the steward shall be
reinstated to any position, which is available and suitable. However,
Diversignsa is not required to discharge any steward in
order to reinstate the steward to any other job other than her former
job. If any issue arises as to the stewards physical capacity to return to
work, Diversignsa may request a medical opinion.
Attendance
Any steward who fails to report to work for three consecutive days
without notice to his or her supervisor/manager will be assumed to
have resigned and abandoned the job. In such a case, the steward will
be terminated.
E-Policies
25

-- 26 of 39 --

General Principles
This policy makes it clear that Diversignsa owns and controls
all workplace technology and therefore all communications and
activity conducted over it. Authorized use of Diversignsa -
owned or operated computing and network resources shall be
consistent with the mission of Diversignsa and consistent
with this policy. Underlying this policy is the idea that each steward has
a responsibility to use the company's information technology
resources in a manner that increases productivity, enhances the Diversignsa's public image, and is respectful of other stewards.
Information Technology Resources Defined:
Information technology resources consist of all electronic devices,
software, and means of electronic communication including, but not
limited to, the following: personal computers and workstations; laptop
computers; mini and mainframe computers; computer hardware such
as disk drives (local and portable), USB flash drives, and tape drives;
peripheral equipment such as printers, modems, fax machines, and
copiers; computer software applications and associated files and data,
including software that grants access to external services, such as the
Internet; electronic mail; telephones; text messages; videophones;
cellular phones; pagers; tablets; Smart phones; USB devices; and
technology systems.
Permitted General Access:
Generally, stewards are given access to the Diversignsa's various
technologies based on their job functions. Only stewards whose job
performance will benefit from the use of the company's information
technology resources will be given access to the necessary technology.
Additionally, stewards must successfully complete company-approved
training before being given access to some of the Diversignsa's information
technology resources. Authorized users of Diversignsa's
computing and network resources include those who may not work for
Diversignsa, but whose access has been authorized by
management. Access, passwords, and e-mail accounts are granted by
management of Diversignsa and therefore access to the
systems can also be denied by management.
This policy does define in detail the acceptable usage of the
information technology resources of Diversignsa by its
stewards. Generally, the resources should be used for business
related functions; however, there are a few exceptions:
26

-- 27 of 39 --

❑ 	To send and receive necessary and occasional personal
communications;
❑ 	To prepare and store incidental personal data (such as personal
calendars, personal address lists, and similar incidental personal
data) in a reasonable manner;
❑ 	To use the telephone system for brief and necessary personal
calls;
❑ 	To access the Internet for brief personal searches and inquiries
during meal times or other breaks, or outside of work hours,
provided that stewards adhere to all other usage policies.
In subsequent sections, this policy defines unacceptable uses of the
information technology resources of the company in more detail.
Diversignsa reserves the right, upon reasonable cause for
suspicion, to access all aspects of its computing systems and networks,
including individual login sessions to determine if a user is violating
this policy or state or federal laws.
User Responsibilities
Privacy
No user should view, copy, alter, or destroy another's personal
electronic files without permission (unless authorized or required to
do so by law or regulation). In addition, users should not have an
expectation of privacy. The information technology system belongs to
Diversignsa. Users expressly waive any right of privacy in
anything they create, store, send, or receive on the company
information technology system.
Sharing of Access
Computer accounts, passwords, and other types of authorization are
assigned to individual users and should not be shared with others. You
are responsible for any use of your account. If an account is shared or
the password divulged, the holder of the account will lose all account
privileges and be held personally responsible for any actions that arise
from the misuse of the account. Applicable to access to time clock ins
and clock outs.
Prohibited Use
Abuse of Diversignsa's computer resources are prohibited
and includes, but is not limited to:
Game Playing:
Computing and network services are not to be used for recreational
game playing. Game playing on company time is counter productive.
Chain Letters:
The propagation of chain letters is considered an unacceptable
practice by Diversignsa and is prohibited. If a chain letter is
received by the steward, Diversignsa prohibits the
forwarding of the email to anyone.
Faxing:
Using the Diversignsa's fax machine or computer faxing capabilities for
non-Diversignsa related activities is strictly prohibited. Diversignsa
prohibits the use of any telephone facsimile machine, computer, or
other device to send an unsolicited advertisement to a telephone
facsimile machine unless authorized by management.
Harassing, Discriminatory, and Defamatory use:
Stewards use electronic mail for correspondence that is less formal
than written memoranda. Stewards must take care, however, not to
let informality degenerate into improper use. Diversignsa
does not tolerate discrimination or harassment based on gender,
pregnancy, childbirth (or related medical conditions), race, color,
religion, national origin, ancestry, age, physical disability, mental
disability, medical condition, marital status, sexual orientation, family
care or medical leave status, veteran status, or any other status
protected by state and federal laws. Under no circumstances may
stewards use Diversignsa's information technology resources to transmit,
receive, or store any information that is discriminatory, harassing, or
defamatory in any way (e.g., sexually explicit or racial messages, jokes,
cartoons).
Gambling:
The use of Diversignsa's computers and networks to gamble is strictly
prohibited.
Online Shopping:
The use of the Diversignsa's computers and the Internet to conduct personal
online shopping is prohibited.
Unauthorized Monitoring:
A user may not use computing resources for unauthorized monitoring
of electronic communications. However, the company has the right,
but not the duty, to monitor any aspects of its computer system
including monitoring sites visited by the stewards, chat groups,
newsgroups, and downloading and uploading of files.
Flooding or Spamming:
Posting a message to multiple list servers or news groups with the
intention of reaching as many users as possible is prohibited.
Spamming email addresses within or outside Diversignsa is
also prohibited.
Private Commercial Purposes:
The computing resources of Diversignsa shall not be used
for personal or private commercial purposes or for financial gain.
Political Advertising or Campaigning:
The use of Diversignsa's computers and networks shall not be used for
political purposes.
Software Piracy:
Access to the Internet enables users to download a wide variety of
software products for a fee as shareware or for free. You are required
to fulfill all license and copyright obligations of software that you
download for your own use. You must inform the stewarding
supervisor of any downloads. These software downloads become the
property of the Diversignsa. Any steward who knowingly
violates this software piracy rule is subject to termination.
Use of Unlicensed Software:
The use of unlicensed software on company computers is strictly
prohibited. All software in use on Diversignsa's information technology
resources must be officially licensed software. No software is to be
installed or used that has not been duly paid for and licensed
appropriately for the use to which it is being put. No steward may
load any software on Diversignsa's computers, by any means of transmission,
unless authorized in writing in advance by a Stewarding Leader.
Authorization for loading software onto the Diversignsa's computers should
not be given until the software to be loaded has been thoroughly
scanned for viruses.
Pornography:
Stewards are not allowed to visit sites that are considered "obscene".
Diversignsa may maintain a system to monitor Internet
usage. In the event that the steward disregards this policy and
continually visits "unauthorized" sites, it will be grounds for
termination after a warning has been issued to the steward. Diversignsa
has the right to view private files that have been
downloaded to check for the propriety of these downloads. Diversignsa
also prohibits using company computer resources to send
sexually oriented images or messages.
General e-Policies
Blogging Policy:
30

-- 31 of 39 --

A weblog, web log or simply a blog is a web application which contains
periodic posts on a common webpage. Such a website would typically
be accessible to any Internet user. Blogging is the act of posting your
comments to a weblog. Blogging can be done for business purposes
such as to generate interest in a new product or service, to gain
knowledge, or to network with colleagues in your field. However,
blogging can also become a drain on work time and can cause
liabilities for both the company and the blogger (steward).
Stewards of Diversignsa are allowed to "blog" during working
hours as long as the blogging activity is related to job activity. A blog
also called weblog, is defined as a shared online journal or website
where people can post entries about their personal experiences,
hobbies, interests and in some cases, work experiences. Corporate
blogging is the use of blogs for business purposes.
As a steward, you must make it clear that the views that are expressed
in the blog are yours alone and do not necessarily represent the views
of your employer. In addition, please adhere to the following blogging
guidelines:
❑ 	Do not reveal confidential and proprietary information.
❑ 	Ensure that blogging does not interfere with work requirements.
❑ 	Consult with the immediate managing steward if questions arise
about appropriateness of blog content.
Instant Messaging (Chat)
Stewards of Diversignsa are allowed to chat via instant
messaging during working hours as long as the chat activity is related
to job activity.
As a steward, you must make it clear that the views that are expressed
in your chat sessions are yours alone and do not necessarily represent
the views of Diversignsa. In addition, please adhere to the
following chat guidelines:
❑ 	Do not reveal confidential and proprietary information.
❑ 	Ensure that chatting does not interfere with other work
requirements.
❑ 	Understand that messages sent through chat can be construed
with the same meaning as written documents and are typically
stored
Other Prohibited Uses:
Stewards may not use any of the Diversignsa's information
technology resources for any illegal purpose, violation of Diversignsa policy, in
a manner contrary to the best interests of the company, in any way
that discloses confidential or proprietary information of the company
or third parties, or for personal gain.
Acceptable Email Usage
In the operation of Diversignsa, email is a business tool. The
use of email is reserved primarily for business use. However, under
some circumstances, Diversignsa's e-mail systems can be used to send and
receive messages to and from children, spouses, friends, domestic
partners, and immediate family, however, the time involved in such
activity should be limited to no more than [30] minutes per day.
Email Passwords
Only authorized stewards issued email passwords are permitted to
use passwords to access their own email accounts. Only authorized
stewards are permitted to use the password of another steward to
access that steward's email account. Misuse of passwords and the
unauthorized sharing of passwords will result in disciplinary action, up
to and including termination.
Forwarding Emails
Users may not forward email to others without the express permission
of the sender. The express permission is necessary since frequently
email contains confidential, proprietary, and trade secrets. All
stewards must consider that e-mail messages meant for a single
reader may not be meant for widespread distribution.
General E-mail
In general, the use of the Diversignsa's email system as medium for the bulk
distribution of information is discouraged.
On rare occasions, email may be the best mechanism to distribute
information to large segments of the Diversignsa
community. Approval of a designated steward is required for
messages sent to more than 250 people.
In addition, these guidelines should be followed:
Messages should be plain text with no attachments. (If
recipients require another kind of material, it can be posted at
a website and links can be included in the message.)
Distribution lists should be kept private. This can be done by
listing recipients in Bcc: addresses instead of To: addresses or
Cc: addresses.
Timing and other details of bulk mailings should be
coordinated with the company postmaster.
Accurate Communication via Email
All stewards should make every attempt to communicate truthfully,
accurately and clearly via email. Stewards should use the same due
care in drafting email as they would for any other Diversignsa's
communication.
Spamming
Stewards are prohibited from sending spam (unsolicited e-mail).
Stewards are prohibited from sending company-wide e-mail messages
to all employees without the approval of an appropriate supervisor.
Spoofing
Stewards are prohibited from hiding their identity (spoofing) when
sending email. Any anonymous or pseudonymous e-mail messages are
prohibited.
Confidential and Sensitive Information via Email
Sending via email proprietary information, trade secrets, or other
confidential information of Diversignsa is strictly prohibited.
This type of information is a valuable asset of Diversignsa.
Unauthorized dissemination of this type of information may result in
civil liability as well as criminal penalties. E-mail messages are like
paper documents. Client-related and member-related e-mail messages
should be carefully guarded and protected. Before sending an e-mail
message every steward should think about how a third party to the
message might interpret the message.
Blind 'Carbon Copies'
Due care must be exercised when sending blind carbon copies (blind
cc) of email messages. All stewards using "blind cc" must ensure that
the addressee's privacy is not violated.
E-mail Retention
E-mail is a generic term and does not refer to any particular type of
record, however, most email is typically considered to be
correspondence. Records in e-mail systems include not only the
messages sent and received, but also the transmission and receipt
data as well.
Since e-mail is considered a usual type of correspondence, e-mail
retention periods should agree with company records retention policy.
If you have determined that the e-mail message is not
correspondence, but it is another type of record, then review the
appropriate retention schedule to determine the applicable retention /
disposition period.
Certain email messages may be considered non-records. Examples of
such non-records include:
❑ 	Non-business Listserv messages
❑ 	Courtesy copies (duplicates) of messages.
❑ 	Minor, non-policy announcements or reminders, i.e., blood drives,
company fundraising activities, etc.
All stewards are responsible for retaining emails. Stewards are also
responsible for deleting drafts and non-business e-mail messages
once they are no longer needed. Don't assume that even though you
have deleted email messages that they cannot be recovered.
Management Access to Technology Resources
Information Assets are Company Property
All messages sent and received, including personal messages, and all
data and information stored on the Diversignsa's electronic mail system,
videophone system, or computer systems are company property
regardless of the content. As such, Diversignsa reserves the right to access all of its information technology resources including its
computers, videophone messages, and electronic mail systems, at any
time, at its sole discretion.
Steward Privacy
Although the Diversignsa does not wish to examine personal
information of its employees, on occasion, the Diversignsa
may need to access its information technology resources including
computer files, electronic mail messages, and videophone messages.
Diversignsa should understand, therefore, that they have no
right of privacy with respect to any messages or information created
or maintained on the Diversignsa's technology resources,
including personal information or messages. The company may, at its
discretion, inspect all files or messages on its information technology
resources at any time for any reason. Diversignsa may also
monitor its information technology resources at any time in order to
determine compliance with these policies, for purposes of legal
proceedings, to investigate misconduct, to locate information, or for
any other business purpose.
Stewards should assume that any communication - whether business
related or personal - that they create, send, receive, or store on the
Diversignsa's information technology resources may be read or heard by
someone other than the intended recipient. In particular, highly
confidential or sensitive information should not be sent through email,
or the Internet.
Diversignsa reserves the right to keep the steward's email
address active for a reasonable period of time following the steward's
departure from the company to ensure that important business
communications reach Diversignsa. Diversignsa will review such
communications and send any appropriate personal communications
to the former steward if forwarding information is provided at
termination.
Monitoring
Diversignsa has the right to monitor any and all usage of its
computer systems including (but not limited to) sites visited by users
on the Internet, chat groups, and newsgroups, and downloaded or
uploaded software. All stewards must be aware that Diversignsa
may use automated software to monitor documents created,
stored, sent, or received.
Passwords
Some of the Diversignsa's information technology resources
can be accessed only by entering a password. Passwords are intended
to prevent unauthorized access to information. Passwords do not
confer any right of privacy upon any steward of the company. Thus,
even though stewards may maintain passwords for accessing
information technology resources, stewards must not expect that any
information maintained on the information technology resources,
including electronic mail and videophone messages, are private.
Stewards are expected to maintain their passwords as confidential.
Stewards must not share passwords and must not access coworkers'
systems without express authorization.
Data Collection by the Company
The best way to guarantee the privacy of personal information is not
to store or transmit it on the Diversignsa's information technology resources. To ensure that stewards understand the extent to which information is
collected and stored, below are examples of information maintained
by the Diversignsa. Diversignsa may, however, at its sole discretion,
and at any time, alter the amount and type of information that it
retains.
Videophone Use (including videophone messages and voicemail)
Records may be kept of all calls made from and to a given telephone
extension. Although videophone or voicemail is password protected,
an authorized steward can reset the password and see the
videophone or voicemail messages.
Electronic Mail
Electronic mail may be backed up and archived. Although electronic
mail is password protected, an authorized steward can reset the
password and read electronic mail.
Desktop Fax Use
Copies of all facsimile transmissions sent and received may be
maintained on a facsimile server online.
Document Use
Each document stored on Diversignsa's computers has a
history, which shows which users have accessed the document for any
purpose.
Internet Use
Internet sites visited, the number of times visited, and the total time
connected to each site may be recorded and periodically monitored.
Deleted Information
37

-- 38 of 39 --

Deleting or erasing information, documents, or messages maintained
on Diversignsa's information technology resources is, in
most cases, ineffective. All stewards should understand that any
information kept on the information technology resources may be
electronically recovered regardless of whether it may have been
"deleted" or "erased" by the steward. Because Diversignsa
periodically backs up all files and messages, and because of the way in
which computers reuse file storage space, files and messages may
exist that are thought to have been deleted or erased. Therefore,
employees who delete or erase information or messages should not
assume that such information or messages are confidential.
Acknowledging Receipt of Policy Manual
I have received a copy of the Diversignsa Policy Manual,
specifying policies, practices, and regulations, which I agree to observe
and follow during my employment with Diversignsa. I
understand that it is my responsibility to be familiar with its contents
and to ask questions on any matters I don't understand.
38

-- 39 of 39 --

